# BigData_Athens

## Project Title : Big Civic Data Management and Analysis: The case of Athens

 - Data integration is a subject of continuous research in the field of information technologies focusing on data management and analysis. The variety associated with big data leads to challenges in data integration. In particular, the data generated and collected in the context of the operation of large modern cities are a prime example of the volume and heterogeneity of elements that co-exist in an ecosystem and can potentially be exploited to produce useful information. Social and economic life, energy, water and waste management, sports, culture, urban environment, and tourism are some of the areas that co-operate and interact within the "living organism" called the city.
 - In the present work, it is considered, in the light of the technological parameters of these functions, the efficient management and exploitation of the data generated by the respective activities. 
 - In the experimental part of this work the OBDA (Ontology-Based Data Access) approach is implemented, using real data collected by organizations in the city of Athens. In order to allow the experimental implementation of the OBDA framework chosen (Ontop) the collected data has been "cleaned". Subsequently, by category, data has been inserted into nine distinct databases to be created for this purpose. 
 - The next step is the creation of a city ontology. Any relevant existing ontologies have been exploited and, where appropriate, adapted to the city of Athens and the available data. Finally, the connection of the ontology to the underlying databases and the querying of the ontology through the SPARQL language, has taken place.
 - This project is attempting to highlight the comparative advantage of using semantic information in the field of data integration through the use of ontologies.

